All right, let's put some of what
we've learned here together and
explore a use case.
And I call this the type registry pattern.
And we're gonna look in a special
folder I've created here just for
this purpose,
cuz I wanna have multiple modules here.
So let's look at what we've got.
So in this type registry folder,
I have a data folder and
a lib folder and then this index.ts.
So what we want to do, well,
I have to introduce a concept here first.
Remember when we were augmenting
the window object and
we said declare global, right?
Let's see, it was here at the very bottom.
Remember when we did this?
This is like saying, I'm going to
provide some type information and
I want to state which scope that
type information should pertain to.
Well, we're gonna do the same thing here,
but we can do it for a particular module.
We can say, I want to declare some type
information, and it should be treated
as if that type information were
like literally in a different file.
In this case, the lib/registry file.
If I put an interface between these
braces, it will be as if I took that
interface and I went and I pasted
it into the /lib/registry.ts file.
That's a new concept that
I wanna introduce here.
So what we're gonna do is look at
a use case where the key of type
query is going to be useful as
well as an index access type,
I believe, in order to solve the problem.
The problem we're going to try to solve
here is building a data layer for
a web application.
And let's say it's my team's job to make
sure that a bunch of other teams have
an easy time fetching data.
And I wanna build a nice easy to
use function that takes the name
of a resource to fetch and
its ID and returns the right type.
We don't know exactly what types users
will need because maybe the teams
that I'm helping empower, they're defining
what book is and what magazine is.
So I kind of need to set something
up that allows very easily for
new things,
new types of records to be created.
And they should kind of just work
with fetch record, that's our goal.
So here's our file structure.
We've got a data folder with book and
magazine in there.
You'll see those are like
trivial little classes where
we define what a book is and
what a magazine is.
You can imagine that we get
JSON back from a server and
we sort of deserialize that JSON and
end up providing an instance of the class.
That's what fetchRecord will return,
a promise that resolves to
an instance of that class, maybe.
We've got a file called registry which
is where some interesting stuff is
gonna happen.
And then index.ts, let's say that's
the entry point of our program,
that's where fetchRecord is gonna be used.
So let's go and
look at a couple of these different files.
We'll start with registry.
So what we've got here
is an empty interface.
This is empty by design, and
we've got our fetchRecord function.
Our fetchRecord function takes
an argument which is key of data type,
registry and string.
And that's just to make it easy for
us to see what's going on here.
And I'm actually gonna comment
a couple things out here, so
we can see a before and after more easily.
So our starting point,
arg is never, you haven't
talked about this yet, but
it represents an impossibility.
The set of values that corresponds
to the never type is an empty set,
represents that nothing
will make this happy.
Now, if we put something in here,
Well, there we go, arg can be foo.
It's the key of this data type registry.
And I'm just adding this so
that we can see it easily.
We'll see when things pop up.
And then the second argument here
is the ID of the thing to fetch.
So what we're gonna do, let's look at
our starting point here where we're
saying I wanna fetch a book, fetchRecord.
It returns a void right now,
don't worry about that so much.
But certainly,
these are a bit of a problem, right?
These aren't accepted values yet,
and let me delete this.
So what we can do is each of these models,
like this class representing a book,
can have at the bottom of the file
a little module declaration.
And it's using this concept of
open interfaces and it's saying,
look, I'm gonna add something
to the interface and
treat it as if this stuff was
in that /lib/registry file.
I want property named book and
here's book.
It's the interface representing
instances of this class, key and value.
Magazine, we're gonna do the same thing.
Key is magazine,
here's an instance of magazine.
And now, if we look at index.ts,
we don't get errors here.
Look at that.
We've got book or magazine.
We get some type checking there.
So you could imagine,
different people at the company,
they're creating different
resources like this.
We could call this, we could say,
video, this is duration.
And this is video.
All I have to do is that I
just create a new class, and
because of this,
it's sort of like just picked up for free.
Look at that, book or magazine or video.
So what I'm taking advantage of here
is I have a central interface that
represent sort of a registry that other
modules are populating stuff into.
They're adding their own entry there.
And remember when we discussed,
there's only one representation of
a type in memory when things compile?
If we go to registry.ts, look at arg,
book or magazine or vehicle or video.
Now, this would work the same way if the
code we're looking at right now were in
your node modules folder.
So you might ask, why would we want this?
Why is this important?
I could just go and create, ask teams
to add their entry into this interface,
right?
Well, if you're publishing a library, you
don't necessarily know what the use cases
of people consuming your
library are gonna do.
You don't want them to have to sort of
modify the library in order to make
things work.
This would let you build something that's
general purpose where you could sort of
register things with a library.
And then, when the compile step happens,
if you go into that libraries code and
your node modules folder,
you'd see something just like this.
The types are sort of fleshing out.
Even though if you look
at this file by itself,
there's nothing here that says book,
right?
It's been sort of injected because
of these module declarations here.
So what's happening is, effectively,
we're using an indexed,
sorry, we're using a type query here and
an open interface in order to create this.
I could take this one step further.
Actually, we will take this one
step further a little bit later.
We will return the correct type, but
we'll need generics in order to do that.
LJ, I see you said the declare
module thing is a bit confusing.
If you want to learn more, Intermediate
TypeScript is a great course to take.
We will get much deeper into
module declarations there and
it's a more advanced concept but
I promise we will scratch your itch there.